Create DIVD-2025-00002.md (#906)
DIVD-NL/web-csirt: _cases/2025/DIVD-2025-00002.md

---
layout: case
title: "Authentication bypass in SonicWall SSL-VPN service"
author: Alwin Warringa
lead: Alwin Warringa

> excerpt: "SonicWall has identified an Improper Authentication vulnerability in the SSLVPN authentication mechanism that allows a remote attacker to bypass authentication, posing a serious threat to network integrity"

Reviewer: Hoezo integrity?
```suggestion
excerpt: "SonicWall has identified an Improper Authentication vulnerability in the SSLVPN authentication mechanism that allows a remote attacker to bypass authentication, posing a serious threat by allowing attackers access to private networks"
```

researchers:
- Alwin Warringa
- Thijs Alkemade (Computest)
cves:
- CVE-2024-53704
product:
- SonicWall SonicOS
versions: 
- 7.1.x (7.1.1-7058 and older versions) for Gen7 firewalls
- 7.1.2-7019 for Gen7 firewalls
- 8.0.0-8035 for TZ80 firewalls
recommendation: "Apply the patch as soon as possible for impacted products"

> workaround: "none"

Reviewer 2: Zet de ssl vpn uit :)?

Reviewer 2: "To mitigate the risk posed by these vulnerabilities, users should ensure that access to the SSL-VPN firewalls is limited to trusted sources, or to disable SSL-VPN access from the internet entirely."

Author: Doorgevoerd

patch_status: Patch available
status : Open
start: 2025-01-09
timeline:
- start: 2025-01-09
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts researching the vulnerability."
- start: 2025-01-09
  end:
  event: "DIVD finds fingerprint, preparing to scan."
- start: 2025-01-09
  end:
  event: "Case opened and starting first scan."
- start: 2025-01-10
  end:
  event: "DIVD starts notifying network owners with a vulnerable devices in their network."
---

## Summary

> SonicWall has identified an Improper Authentication vulnerability in the SSLVPN authentication mechanism. A successful exploit of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to gain unauthorized access, with potential impacts to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SonicWall has identified an Improper Authentication vulnerability in the SSLVPN authentication mechanism. A successful exploit of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to gain unauthorized access, with potential impacts to the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the networks that were supposed to be protected by the VPN.
```

Reviewer: de CIA van de Sonic Wall zelf is niet ingevaar, toch?

## Recommendations

> To remediate {% cve CVE-2024-53704 %}, apply the patch as soon as possible for impacted products, latest patch builds are available for download on mysonicwall.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remediate {% cve CVE-2024-53704 %}, apply the patch as soon as possible for impacted products, latest patch builds are available for download on [mysonicwall.com](https://mysonicwall.com).
```
Please check URL

## What we are doing

DIVD is currently working to identify parties that are running a vulnerable version of SonicWall SSL-VPN service and to notify these parties. 

{% include timeline.html %}

## More information

* {% cve CVE-2024-53704 %}

> * [SonicWall Security Bulletin](https://psirt.global.sonicwall.com/vuln-detail/SNWLID-2025-0003)

Reviewer: Geen publicaties vanuit Computest?

Reviewer 2: Ik zie vanuit computest geen blogposts, maar zie wel dat andere mensen ze benoemen icm sonicwall:
https://www.beveiligingswereld.nl/nieuws/kwetsbaarheden-vpn-server-sonicwall

Author: Computest heeft idd nog geen blogpost, zodra deze er is kunnen we hem toevoegen.
